---
layout: post
title: "Precision Over Blanket Fixes: An Intent-Aware Aprpaoch to Mitigate Data-Driven Errors in LLMs"
comments_id: 3
---

We stand at a pivotal moment where generative AI is rapidly establishing its presence in modern applications, transforming industries like healthcare and finance. Large language models (LLMs) are at the forefront of this new wave of technological transformation thanks to their advanced natural language understanding and reasoning abilities. However, despite their immense potential, they come with challenges. The strength of LLMs is primarily derived from their training on extensive datasets, mainly sourced from the internet. As a result, they are often susceptible to biases and issues inherent in the data, which can be reflected in their generated output. Without proper safeguards, this can lead to misuse and erode trust in their use across critical applications.  

Traditional solutions to these issues often involve indiscriminate repairs to the entire model without considering the contribution of specific parameters to the error. This often results in a repair that disproportionately downgrades the model's overall capabilities. In this research, we address this gap by introducing an intent-aware repair method that takes the contribution of model parameters to the error into account and selectively intervenes to mitigate it. Our approach dynamically adapts to the evolving nature of training, enabling it to address error concentrations distributed across the model. A case study on toxicity in GPT-family models shows that toxicity is typically confined to a limited, non-contiguous region, and our intent-aware approach significantly preserves general performance while delivering more precise and effective error mitigation compared to state-of-the-art baseline methods.

The implications of an effective bias mitigation method for LLMs are profound. Generative AI is increasingly being used in critical applications, such as healthcare, where issues like hallucinations (e.g., prescribing non-existent drugs) and toxicity (e.g., stereotyping certain races) limit their usefulness. By mitigating these issues in LLMs while preserving their core functionality, we can significantly increase trust in these systems, leading to greater efficiency and reliability across a wide range of services, including healthcare and beyond.





